All right, great.
We are going to start a brand new series.
If this year home church, you've been around for a while, you know that we've been studying the book of John for two and a half years.
We're going to finish that up next May, so it's getting closer and closer.
So May of 2027, we'll finish up the book of John.
It'll be 100 sermons.
Man, it's just been awesome to journey through that.
But in between doing spring and fall in the book of John,
we've been doing these series called Life Matters.
And what we've been looking at are different matters of life.
So it's a little play on words there.
We've been looking at matters of life.
And at the same time, life does matter.
And that's why you look at matters of life.
And so as we start this year and we felt like, man, God is leading us into this year of overflow.
We're asking God to place His hand of abundance on everything that we do.
We do together, we do in our neighborhoods.
Man, how could we press into a topic
that would help us to live that out at our work, at our homes, at our neighborhoods.
And so we started kind of exploring the idea of what are the matters of the mission?
How can we recognize that we have a mission?
There's a reason you're on this planet.
There's a reason you exist.
And it's to do your job.
It's to have a family.
It's to do all the things you do.
But there's a big huge reason, especially if you're a Jesus follower, that you're on this planet.
And what will we need in our toolbox
if we were going to do the mission and not just go to church, go home, rinse and repeat.
So there's some things I wanna talk to you about before we get into that.
And one of them is this, there are things that we will all do better when we're in heaven.
There are things that we do now on this planet that when we're in heaven and when we eventually come back to earth and you can read all about that in Revelation, that we will do better, okay?
We just worshiped, right?
And the truth be told, as beautiful as your worship is, as beautiful as some of you sing, as talented as some of these people are up on stage, all these people up here are super talented, right?
I can never do anything that they do.
The truth is we all will worship better when we're in heaven.
We'll all worship better when we take off these bodies and we put on new, sinless, perfect
bodies when we're like Jesus, right?
So we're gonna have new bodies to serve Him.
We're gonna have new bodies to worship Him.
We also will be free from sin and the constant temptation.
that it often comes with, right?
So that's something we can do better.
As long as you were on this planet, as long as you were in this human body, you were gonna be tempted with sin.
You were gonna be, sin's gonna be waved in front of you.
It's gonna be tempting in your mind.
It's gonna be tempted in your body.
It's gonna be tempting with your eyes.
It's gonna be tempted with your ears.
It's gonna be tempting with your hands, right?
You're gonna be tempted to sin.
It's all around you all the time.
You can't run away from it.
If you are a monk and you go live in a monastery or nun and you go live it, you are still tempted with sin because it is in.
your mind.
It's in your body.
You cannot get away from it, right?
But when we're released from here, when we take that second adventure after death, we're free from all that.
So we can do that better.
We can be separated from this world's pool and Satan's tricks.
Right?
We'll do that better.
Eventually, if you read the end of your Bible, Satan gets thrown into something called the lake of fire where he'll be separated from us and from God and from our world forever and ever.
Amen.
He no longer will get to do the things that he's doing with reckless abandon on our planet and we'll have to deal with that anymore.
So why are we still here if we could be way more faithful in heaven?
If we're still here, even though we could do all those things and many, many more, better in heaven, then why didn't God just save you from your sin and take you home?
Why keep you here?
In 2009,
Kobe Bryant was an NBA basketball player on the Los Angeles Lakers and they were playing this team called the Orlando Magic and the LA Lakers were 10 times better maybe a hundred times better than the Orlando Magic in 2009.
They were up in the series to zero.
It's a seven game series.
You have to win four and explain in that for those of you who don't do sport.
Okay.
There's seven games you got to win for to move on in the playoffs to try and win the championship.
The other Lakers that just crushed
Orlando for the second time, they're up, they won 100 to 75.
They destroy them, they're gonna destroy them.
They're gonna end up winning the series four to one, right?
Just almost a sweep, a gentleman's sweep.
They're interviewing Kobe Bryant after game two, where they have one, they've destroyed them, they've blown them away.
Kobe Bryant should be happy, right?
Well, here's what happens.
Your game face has been on the entire series.
It's the waitin' for a big smile outta here, you're up 2-0.
What's the story?
Are you not happy or you're only half happy or instead of be happy about you're up too old.
Job's not finished.
Job finished.
No, I don't think so.
Okay, Kobe was ruthless, right?
Call him the black mamba for a reason, right?
But here was the point.
The goal wasn't to win two games.
The goal was to win four.
So why am I gonna be happy?
Why am I gonna be satisfied?
Why am I going to smile and celebrate and start popping bottles when we have a one four?
So they're like, man, why aren't you letting off the game face?
And he said this, the job is not finished.
Why are you still on this planet?
Because the job is not finished.
The reason you are here as a follower of Jesus
is because there are tons of people who are not followers of Jesus and the job's not finished.
The thing you can't do in heaven that you can do here is go fish for men and women and their souls, right?
And so since the job's not finished, we must have something to do.
NT Wright said this, heaven is not the goal of the Christian life, although many think it is, the goal is new creation.
The goal is new creation.
Heaven is not the goal.
Jesus doesn't offer heaven as the thing that he ultimately wants you to be saved for.
He doesn't want you to give your life to him and make him Lord so that you get heaven, right?
The goal is a new creation, is that you and other people would be changed into a new creation.
And that is the mission.
So I'm gonna talk to you about the mission a little bit and then I'm gonna put some tools in your toolbox for the mission so that we can all begin
to do the mission better.
So what is the mission?
What are we supposed to do?
Here it is, summarize it a little bit, okay?
Here's what it is.
What are we supposed to do as followers of Jesus Christ?
Jesus' mission for us.
And when I say us, here's who I mean.
If you have made Jesus the Lord of your life, capital L, capital O, capital R, capital D, you've exchanged your life for his.
You said Jesus, you died on the cross, you were buried, you rose from the dead.
Here's my life.
I'll take yours.
It's called the great exchange.
It's called salvation.
It's called be morning in.
It's all the same thing.
Then your mission is to love God first and foremost, to love people, to make disciples, to live like Jesus, to serve others, to share the gospel and to depend on God through prayer.
These are all captured in some of our callings, right?
We do Jesus-centered gatherings.
We make Jesus a part of everything that we do.
We do the journey of discipleship through one-to-one, through our tribes, through men's ministry, called tender warriors, through women's ministry, called becoming.
Why do we do all those things?
Man, because we want to gather women once a month for Bible study and tea.
No, we want to gather women once a month so they can become like Jesus and go fish for more women who can be like Jesus.
Why do we do tender warriors?
Cause we love to get together for men, eat food, laugh, talk about sports and be away from our kids for an hour and a half.
That is not why it exists.
Tender wars exist as a discipleship path.
So men can become men of God and live like him out in the wild and bring men to saving faith.
Okay.
Why do we do prayer saturation?
Why do we have a prayer room?
Why do we pray for people before service, after service?
Why do we want prayer to invade your home?
Because it is how God expands the mission of Jesus.
This is what we, those of us who say we are part of the family of God, this is what we do.
Now, why do we do it?
Why do we do it?
Here's why we do it.
Any good what doesn't matter if you don't have a why, right?
We live out Jesus' mission because
God has loved and rescued us.
Values every person, we believe that God values every person, no matter who they are, if you are here today and you don't know Jesus is your Lord and Savior, here's what I would say to you.
God loves you, God values you, God has a purpose for your life.
It is bigger than you think it is.
I don't feel loved by God, you are.
Because we value every person
He's renewing the world through his kingdom and invites his followers to join in for his glory.
Here's how we say this at Richwoods.
We help people find and follow Jesus.
That's why we do everything, y'all.
Do you understand that?
Why do we do worship?
Why do we preach the word of God?
Why do we have youth ministry?
Why do we have small groups?
Why do we have outreach partners in the community?
Why do we have kids ministry on Sunday morning?
Why do we have middle school ministry on Wednesday night?
Why do we go to camps?
Why do we have outreach events?
Why do we do fall festivals?
Why do we do that stuff to help people find and follow Jesus?
Every single thing points to that.
Why?
So that's what we do or what we should be doing.
Might be a better way to put it.
That's why we do it.
Right?
But then there's a question of how do we do it?
How do we do it?
And that's what we're going to explore the next five weeks.
Is I'm going to give you some tools so that you know how to do the mission with your friends, your family, your coworkers, and your neighbors.
Because if Jesus is Lord of your life, then you should be on a mission.
And the truth is,
The abundant life Jesus promised in John 10 cannot be experienced without living out the mission.
It cannot.
It's not about bank accounts, it's not about peace, it's not about no valleys, it's not about mountaintops.
When you do the mission God has given you to do, that is when you experience abundant life.
Age doesn't matter, race doesn't matter, accomplishments don't matter.
If you are a follower of Jesus, you can do this mission.
and you are supposed to.
So here's what we're going to look at.
We're going to look at truth because you can accomplish your mission without truth.
We're going to look at proximity and empathy.
We're going to look at seeing others.
What does that mean?
Gentleness and humility and compassion.
That's your next five weeks, okay?
So we'll start today with truth.
If you want to do the mission that God has for you, whether you want to go do it at high school or you want to do it at college or you want to do it at your job at Caterpillar or you want to do it at home with your kids, you have to have
truth, you have to have a message to share.
And I think we often share the wrong message because we get confused about what truth is.
This happened 2000 years ago in John 18, Jesus is before this guy named Pilate and he says to Jesus, hey, so you are a king.
Jesus answered him, you say that I'm a king.
Jesus was a little spicy that day.
So he gave him a little sass.
Right?
A little sass for pilot, right?
He's getting ready to go on a cross, so a little sass never hurt anybody.
He's like, you say you are a king, Jesus like, you say that I'm a king.
And then Jesus goes on.
He says, for this purpose, I was born.
Remember that little major scene on Christmas?
This purpose I was born, and for this purpose I have come into the world to bear witness to the truth.
Everyone who is of the truth listens to my voice.
Now watch what Pilate says.
Pilate says the same thing that we hear from our children.
Pilate says the same thing we hear from those who don't believe.
Pilate says the same thing that many of us in this room have asked at one time or another.
Some of you in this room are still seeking the answer to this question.
What is truth?
What can I bank on?
What is absolutely certain?
In a world of uncertainty, how can I have
Certainty, how can I know that there's something that is truth?
Now throughout history, there have been various thoughts by deep thinkers on truth.
And so I looked up some of them, some of them don't know Jesus, some of them were Jesus followers, but I wanted to share some thoughts on truth with you.
Plato, who was not a Jesus follower, said this, truth is the beginning of every good to the gods and of every good to man.
Okay.
Whatever, all right?
Sounds good.
St. Augustine, he was a Jesus follower.
He said this about truth.
Truth is like a lion.
You don't have to defend it, just let it loose.
It will defend itself.
You know what St. Augustine knew?
Truth isn't a concept.
Truth has an identity.
And what we often try and do is defend the truth instead of letting the truth defend itself.
You don't have to defend God, by the way.
God can defend himself.
That's why the beginning of your Bible says in the beginning God, it doesn't explain how God exists, it just assumes that he is.
So we don't have to explain him.
Aristotle had this one and I've read it eight times now and I still don't know what it means, but here's what he said, to say of what is that it is and of what is not, that it is not is true.
What is that?
If you can understand that,
than bravo, you are so much smarter than me.
I've read it eight times, I still don't know what it means, but it says something about being true, so I used it.
C.S.
Lewis said this, Christianity of false is of no importance, and that's true.
If Christianity is false, it's of no importance, and if it's true, it's of infinite importance.
That's where some of you in the room who maybe don't have a relationship with God yet, you have to decide.
Either what we're talking about is of massive importance,
Or it's of no importance.
It can't be of middle importance.
Cause that wasn't the claim of Jesus.
Jesus didn't come on and say, I'm a pretty good guy.
You can follow me if you want.
He come on and said, I am God in a human body.
And that either makes me a lunatic, a liar, or I'm your Lord.
I cannot be anything else.
You have to choose.
So Christianity, what we're talking about is either of no importance and I don't even know why you're here.
Or it's of infinite importance.
And we all should be way more excited.
about the things that we do in this room.
Frederick Nietzsche, who was an atheist, he said, there are no facts, only interpretations.
I believe this is where most people fall now.
I believe that a lot of Christians fall here now.
There's only a few things that we can be certain of, and the rest is your interpretation of this book.
You know what that does?
It leads everything open, like a buffet.
of truth.
If you can decide what truth is, and I can decide what truth is, and she can decide what truth is, then no one has it.
There are no facts, only interpretations, which is exactly the view of an atheist, right?
Jesus, who was a pretty good thinker, he made it much simpler than Aristotle.
He said, if you abide in my word, you are truly my disciples.
And if you will know the truth, and the truth will set you free.
He said, there's something about truth when you discover it that you find freedom.
We'll give more on that later.
So as Pilate asked 2,000 years ago, what is truth?
What is truth?
This is such an important question to answer for us because how can we do what Jesus left us to do, the mission, if we can't confidently do it based upon truth?
How do you go from this room
Go to wherever you're going, right?
Go back to high school tomorrow or Tuesday.
I know some schools start Tuesday.
Go to your job tomorrow.
Go to your family tonight.
Hang out with your lost friends this week.
How do you go to them with a mission and you, but you don't have certainty.
You don't have truth to offer them.
How can you?
You can't.
You're just offering them hopes and wishes and dreams.
See, and here's the thing.
I think we get confused what our mission is.
Our mission is not to tell people that we are believers.
That's not our mission.
Our mission is not just to walk around and say, I'm a believer in God.
Because the Bible tells us, man, the demons, they believe in tremble.
So just believing in God is not the mission.
Plenty of people believe in God or a God.
It's not the mission.
Listening to Christian music is not the mission.
The mission is not to roll up Knoxville with your Christian music blaring out your rolled down window saying you're spreading the gospel.
That's not the mission.
A bumper sticker sticker is not the mission.
A tattoo is not the mission, right?
I didn't get this verse tattooed the back of my arm to do the mission.
That's not the mission, right?
It's not to beg them to come to church.
Now, please hear me.
All those things are fine things.
We play Christian music.
We play worship songs, right?
We quote Bible verses.
We tell people that we are followers of Jesus.
We invite people to church.
Obviously, some of you have friends here today.
And there's nothing wrong with those things.
But our mission is to be witnesses, not believers,
Only not listening to the right Christian music.
Our mission is to be witnesses and witnesses of the person of God.
Listen to this right here.
Our mission is to tell people about God, not just do Christian things.
Christian things don't help people turn from their sin and surrender their life to Jesus.
Before I knew Jesus, my girlfriend played Christian music.
It did not lead me to Jesus.
It did not.
I just thought it was terrible music, right?
I just thought it was terrible music.
I was like, now I gotta do all these things and listen to terrible music to be with Jesus.
Sounds terrible, right?
Across around someone's neck, right?
It's not the mission.
The mission is to tell people about God.
and who he is, which brings us to the first truth.
It brings us to the first truth, which is the person of God.
The person of God, when, when Pilate asks what is truth, the answer is, it's not a concept, it's a person and that person is God.
In the Old Testament, the word truth is in met and it means faithfulness, reliability and steadfast character of God.
It means a steadfast character of God.
So if we are going to go out and do the matters of the mission, if we're gonna go out from our church and lead people and help people find and follow Jesus, the truth that all of us need is the person of God.
We don't need to offer them another service.
We don't need to offer them another sermon.
We don't need to offer them another worship song.
We need to tell them about the person of God.
That's how you become a witness.
Here's who God is.
And so I wanna walk you through a few characteristics of God so that you can have them in your tool belt, so you can have them in your mission toolbox because those are the things that you need to share with the people who are broken in your life.
Inviting them to church is great.
Making an introduction to God is way better.
But do you know
some of the characteristics of God to offer those you're witnessing to.
Let me give you a few.
Here's the first one.
God is faithful.
What does that mean that God is faithful?
It means that he keeps his promises.
Now just think about it, if you're dealing with someone who is struggling in their life, they're having a difficulty with addiction, or they're having a difficulty with mental health, or they're having a difficulty in their family, or they're having a difficulty financially, and they don't know how they're gonna make the money equal the month, and the month is too long for the money, and they're having all these things that are coming to you and just telling you man how difficult life is, and how much the struggle is, and how their business isn't going, how it is, and you just say, hey, here's a Bible verse.
Or you reached into your mission toolbox and you said, let me tell you about a God who is faithful.
Maybe that friend hasn't been faithful.
Maybe that family member hasn't been faithful.
Maybe your life doesn't feel like it's been faithful, but let me tell you about a God who is faithful.
You see how much more powerful that is when you offer the truth, which is the person of God?
Just listen to some of these scriptures that we should have ready to share with people.
who are looking for faithfulness in this life.
Deuteronomy seven, nine says, no therefore that the Lord your God is God.
He is the faithful God.
Keeping his covenant of love to a thousand generations of those who love him and keep his commandments.
Psalm 33 verse four says, for the word of the Lord is right and true.
He is faithful in all he does.
When you are ministering to someone who is experiencing like a lack of faithfulness in their life and they feel like man, no one has been there for them.
No one loves them unconditionally for who they are.
You are able, able to reach into your tool pops and say, let me tell you about someone I've witnessed who is faithful in all he does.
Listen to one Samuel chapter 15 verse 29, it says, he who is the glory of Israel does not lie or change his mind, for he is not a human being.
that he should change his mind.
We often preach the gospel as, man, it's the death bear resurrection of Jesus you should give your life to it.
Instead of saying, let me tell you who God is, because God is truth.
When Pilate asks what is truth, the answer is God, the person of God.
Not only is God faithful, but God is reliable.
What does that mean?
You ever think to ask these questions?
Like, what does guys reliable?
What does that mean?
Here's what it means.
It means his love and his word are constant across generations.
This is your God.
This is the one you should be excited about.
This is the one that we should surrender to.
This is the one that we should say, man, overflow us God because we have a God who is reliable and he loves his love and his word are always constant in a world that isn't constant.
Psalm 100 verse five says, for the Lord is good and his love endures forever.
His faithfulness continues through all what?
Generations.
Generations, not just this generation, not just millennials, not just Gen Xers, not just Gen Z, just not Gen Alpha, through all generations, no matter how much they believe in God or don't believe in God, God is faithful.
God is reliable.
You can bank on Him.
Psalm 36 verse five says, your love, Lord, reaches to the heavens, your faithfulness to the skies.
How big is the reliability of God?
Man, let me tell you about it.
It goes to the heavens.
In Isaiah 25, I love this one.
It says, Lord, you are my God.
I will exalt you and praise your name for imperfect faithfulness.
You have done wonderful things, things planned long ago.
Just make this practical for a second.
Take any kind of hurt.
I talked to a lady after first service.
There's a man she knows relative, there's a massive brain tumor.
Huge, nothing to do about it.
They got 80% of it, it grows back immediately, right?
Maybe give them a year, right?
What are you gonna offer?
A Bible verse?
A church service?
What are you gonna offer?
Are you getting in a small group?
You know what she needs?
Do you know what that man needs?
Needs to hear about God's faithfulness.
Needs to hear about God is reliable.
Needs to hear about God knows, God sees, and God has a plan.
It may be healing, it may be death, but God can be counted on.
More people need to hear this message
than the one we're off and sharing.
But not only is God faithful and God reliable, I'll give you one more for your tool belt.
God is steadfast.
I feel like this one is one of the most appropriate.
And what's that mean?
It means His mercy and truth never waver.
God never ever wavers.
Turn on the news, what wavers?
Everything.
Go to high school, what wavers?
One minute they love you, the next minute they hate you.
One minute you're popular, the next minute you're not.
One minute you wore the right outfit, next minute you didn't, right?
One minute they like a post, next minute they don't.
One minute they read your snap, the next minute they don't.
I don't know anything about Snapchat, but they tell me that's a thing, right?
How about you when you go to work?
One minute you're a great employee, one minute you're not.
One minute you're finance are okay, one minute they're not.
What do you need in your life?
What do people need in their life?
They need to know about someone who is constantly, constantly, constantly steadfast.
They need to know that his mercy
and his truth never waver.
I hear it all the time, man.
I'll get baptized when I get to this place.
Why?
Guys, I'm waiting for you to get to that place.
His mercy is new every single day.
You don't need more of you.
You need more of his mercy.
This is who he is.
Just listen to some of the scriptures on this.
Psalm 89 says, I will sing of the Lord's great love forever.
With my mouth, I will make your faithfulness known
throughout our generations.
And he literally puts it in the scripture.
What should we be telling people?
We should be telling people about his faithfulness, his steadfastness, his reliability.
I think a lot of people don't give God a chance because we haven't been witnesses of God.
We've been telling them we're believers.
We've been listening to our Christian music.
We've been going to church.
But a bunch of people do those things.
How many are out there saying this is who God is?
He goes on and says, I will declare that your love stands firm forever.
That you may have established, you have established your faithfulness in heaven itself.
Psalm 119 says your faithfulness continues through all generations.
You established the earth and it endures.
Lamentations three, y'all know this one if you've been around church at any time.
Because of the Lord's great love, we are not consumed for his passions,
How often fail?
Never.
Thank you, brother.
Thank you for speaking out.
I'm glad someone's awake in here.
All right.
We'll try it again.
Come on, church.
Act like God's alive.
Act like he's real.
Interact with me a little bit for his compassion.
Never what?
Fail.
They never fail.
I switched it up for you and see if you say the wrong word, right?
It never fail.
If you are a believer in Jesus, this is true.
His compassion's never, ever fail.
If you're a lost person in here, his compassion's never, ever fail.
Why is he better than a relationship with another guy?
Because his compassion's never fail.
Why is he better than a relationship with another girl?
They are new every morning.
Great is your faithfulness.
What should we be telling people about the person of God?
He's the greatest person there is.
He's the one and only God.
There's nothing like Him.
But I think we get bored with Him.
We take Him for granted.
And we miss that the most important part of the mission is being witnesses to the truth.
And Pilate said, what is truth?
And the first one is, it's the person of God.
That's such a gift to have certainty in the character and person of God.
And when the world is filled with doubts, fears, questions like what is truth, we can rest assured that God is still the same yesterday, today, and forever.
And that is truth.
But there's another part of truth and it's found in the New Testament.
You see, this word is different than the word truth in the old.
The truth in the old is a myth.
This word is a laethea.
And it's a reality and revelation of Jesus.
And I'm gonna explain this too.
It's really more simple than those words are.
But the New Testament truth, right, is much more personal.
It's much more intimate.
It's much closer.
It's more tangible.
You see, the Old Testament, it met, is this huge faithful, amazing, steadfast, immovable God.
And the New Testament, what God does, same God, but He comes near.
And he says, here's truth.
It's the reality and the revelation that is Jesus.
Jesus is the embodiment of truth.
Dietrich Bonhoeffer said, Jesus does not give answers to our questions.
He is the answer.
How often do we live this out?
I ministered to people for a living, right?
talk to a lot of people about a lot of things and they're looking for a lot of answers.
A lot of answers.
A lot of people have questions.
You know, every single person, almost every single person's least favorite answer?
Jesus.
What do I do about Jesus?
Okay, I know that part, but like, where can I read?
What podcast can I list to?
Who can I see?
What counselor can I go to?
Right?
Jesus is rarely enough.
See, but Jesus doesn't just give answers.
He often is the answer because Jesus is truth.
The person of God is truth and Jesus is truth.
Soren Kierkegaard said, truth is not a system, it's a life and it's the life of Jesus.
This is one of the secrets of God that I think many followers miss.
Truth isn't a concept.
It's not a set of principles.
It's just not a collection of books and scriptures.
Truth is a life.
Truth walk the earth.
Truth is seated next to God the Father right now.
You see, here's where this comes.
Remember when we read the story about Pilate and he comes and says, what is truth?
When the right question actually is, who is truth?
Who is truth?
Pilate asks, what is truth?
And Jesus redirects him to say, man, truth is standing right.
in front of you.
So when we go out and we wanna do the mission and we wanna pull out our mission toolbox, we can offer people the person of God.
Here's what God is like.
Here's who God is.
You can interact with this God, but we also can offer them the same truth, which is Jesus who is tangible and present and near and close.
See, instead of telling them they can come to church, instead of telling them a few scriptures, we can offer them an intimacy with truth.
You can't be intimate with a concept, but you can be intimate with Jesus.
In John chapter one verse 14 is described this way and the word became flesh and dwelt among us and we have seen his glory.
Gore is the only son from the father full of what?
Grace and truth were still struggling to communicate.
I don't know what's going on.
It's okay to talk in church.
You all know that, right?
It's okay.
The youth do it all the time, right?
Full of grace and truth.
He was full of grace and truth.
Martin Luther said it this way, Christ is not only the truth, but the way by which truth comes to us.
How do you take truth to your neighbor's friends, co-workers and family?
You take Jesus.
You don't try to come up with a concept.
You don't come up with a philosophy.
You take Jesus.
In John chapter 14 verse six, Jesus said to them, I am the way
And the truth, I am the way and the truth and the life.
And why is that so important?
Because no one comes to the Father except through the Bible.
You gonna let me get away with that?
Is that what it says?
That's a misquoted scripture.
Don't let me fly on that, right?
No one comes to the Father except through rituals.
Wrong again.
Emily's got it, right?
No one comes to the Father except
through me.
See, Pilate thought he was looking for a concept when actually his soul was longing for a person.
A person, an intimate divine reality person named Jesus is the truth.
Julianne of Norwich said, our Lord Jesus is the ground
the substance, the very teaching of truth.
See, Jesus makes truth personal and divine.
We can connect with him.
We can share his presence with others.
Did you know that that you can share Jesus's presence with others, including those who don't know him?
How do I share the presence of Jesus with people who don't know Jesus?
It's actually way easier than you think.
You already do it with your children, with your spouse, with your friends.
You ever met someone who's just had a baby, right?
We got people pregnant all over this place or have newborns within a year, right?
What do they never shut up about?
Their baby, right?
They never stop talking about their baby.
Whether it's the bad, they keep them up all night, or the good at how cute they are, and hopefully they're cute, so you don't have to lie to them, right?
Nothing worse than another baby that you gotta say is beautiful, right?
It happens.
But they talk about the baby all the time because it has reshaped their life.
And you don't have to be there in the presence of the baby for them to bring the presence of the baby into your life.
Because we talk about what we love.
So how do I bring the presence of Jesus into the life of people who don't know Jesus?
You just bring his presence like you would have loved one.
You talk about what you love.
And so you may think like, man, I'm gonna have to start mustering them up.
And here's the secret.
Here's the secret.
You will never talk about Jesus if you've got to force yourself to talk about Jesus.
You will never talk about Jesus if you have to force yourself to talk about Jesus.
You won't because we talk about what we love.
We remember what we love.
We bring into other people's presence what we love.
This is why the mission fails.
in America and people are sending missionaries to us instead of us sending missionaries to them.
Because we aren't in love with Jesus enough to take his presence outside this room.
But that's the mission that this church is going to go on, right?
That's the reality of Jesus.
It's the revelation of God that we share with people.
And here's what happens.
Here's what can happen and I'll finish here.
Here's what the truth brings into your life.
The truth creates freedom and worship.
Why are many Christians just as bound up as non-believers?
Because we don't have the truth active in our life.
We go to church, we can say we're believers, but when the person of God
And the reality and intimacy of Jesus are active in our life.
You know what the automatic fruit of that is?
Freedom and worship every single time.
John chapter eight, verse 31, Jesus said to the Jews, so I believe in him, if you abide in my word, you are truly my disciples and you will know the truth and the truth will set you free.
Elizabeth Elliot said, the will of God is not something you add to your life, it is a course you have to choose.
John 17, 17 said, sanctify them in the truth.
Your word is truth.
Eugene Peterson said this about the Bible.
You want to know how important it is to this story?
The Bible is not used to answer questions but to form lies.
When we get into and know the person of God and we get into an intimate relationship with Jesus that is real and active and we start to let the Word of God form us instead of just answer our questions.
Here's what happens.
You begin to find freedom and worship.
And that's where all this should lead.
For us in this house, those of us who he is Lord, are you a worshipper?
Have you come in contact with the person of God so much that you can't help but worship?
Have you discovered the reality of Jesus so much that you can't help but worship and you are finding freedom?
Are you still bound up because those things are kind of nebulous truths?
in your life.
Here's what Jesus said in John chapter four, verse 23.
The hour is coming and is now here when the true worshipers.
Now anytime in scripture, if it says something is true, what's that mean?
Also, there's something that is what?
False.
If the Bible says something is true, then you can inherently go ahead and know there's something that's false, right?
When it says there is one gospel and one Jesus or other people have another Jesus or another gospel, that's what he's saying.
When he's saying there's true worshipers, that means there are false worshipers.
Because to be a true worshiper, we have to worship the Father in spirit and in truth.
What does he mean by truth?
He means the person of God and the intimate personal relationship with Jesus.
This is how we worship.
And the Father is seeking such people to worship him.
God is spirit and those who worship Him must worship in spirit and truth.
But here's what happens for us is we often worship based on the lights and the smoke and the really talented worship people.
And if you hit my song, sing a certain song and it really gets me into worship.
And the truth is the truth is that the person of God and the intimate relationship and person of Jesus is what should make us worship.
Not the lights, not the smoke and not Brian up here dancing.
Those are great.
But Brian doesn't want you to worship Brian.
And I don't want you to worship me because the Father is seeking true worship.
And if we don't have true worship in here of the person and work of God, then how are they gonna have it out there?
They can.
Which is why our response to the word of God is so important today.
It's so important.
So I'm gonna give you three things to pursue, and I only want you to choose one, because if you choose more than one, you won't do it, because I wouldn't do it either, okay?
So here it is.
During this last song, you get to choose.
I want you to decide, in 2026, I'm gonna pursue one of these three things.
I'm gonna pursue the character of God, so that I'm able to tell people out there
who God is.
You know what this year, I'm gonna find out who God is.
I'm gonna find out about His holiness.
I'm gonna find out about His light.
I'm gonna find out that He is love.
I'm gonna find out about His faithfulness.
I'm gonna find out about His steadfastness.
I'm gonna find out about His reliability.
I'm gonna find out these omniscient.
I'm gonna find out He's omnipresent.
I'm gonna find out what those words mean.
And I'm gonna find out who God is.
What is the character of God so that I can go out when people are struggling, when people are hurting, when relationships are falling apart, I'm able to say, here is God you can count on Him.
or you're going to pursue the person and work of Jesus, right?
And I know the overachievers in the room, right?
I'm an Indian Grandmate.
I want to do everything always, right?
You say, you know what?
I want to know who Jesus is.
I want to know who Jesus is and what Jesus did.
I want to become a person of love like Jesus.
And so what you're going to do is you're going to read Matthew, Mark, Luke, John, and the book of Acts over and over and over this year because that is where you learn and come in contact with the person of Jesus.
So either I'm going to decide to study the character of God so that I can have that in my mission tool belt so I can reach people far from Christ, or I'm going to study the person and work of Jesus, right?
Or I'm going to pursue being formed into the image of God through this book.
I'm going to read this book.
I'm going to become familiar with this book.
I'm going to read this book like literature.
I'm going to study it for theology.
I'm going to lean into this book.
By the time this year ends, I will have a good handle, not a great, just a good handle on this book because this book then will help you learn about the person and work of Jesus and the character of God.
Now, I know what happens in the room of overachievers.
Well, we got to do all three because all three are important.
If you try to do all three, you'll do none.
But what if we wanted to go in a year of overflow and say, man, I wanna reach people, I wanna reach my neighbors, I wanna reach my coworkers?
And the only way I'll be able to do that is if I know the truth.
And don't forget who is truth.
It's the character of God, it's the person of God as defined by the word of God.
Which one could you surrender to today
and say, I am going to pursue that.
I'm going to pursue that one.
Our marriage is going to pursue that one.
Our family is going to pursue that one and go after it, reckless abandon.
So that we can help people find and follow Christ because the jobs not done.
Let's stand and worship.